1. What query would you run to get all the countries
that speak Slovene? Your query should return
the name of the country, language and language
percentage. Your query should arrange the result
by language percentage in descending order

SELECT name,countrylanguage.language,countrylanguage.percentage
FROM country
JOIN countrylanguage ON countrylanguage.CountryCode=Code
WHERE language='Slovene'
ORDER BY percentage	DESC

2. What query would you run to display the total
number of cities for each country? Your query
should return the name of the country and the
total number of cities. Your query should arrange
the result by the number of cities in descending
order. 

SELECT country.name,count(city.ID)
FROM country
JOIN city ON city.CountryCode=Code
group by country.code	
order by count(city.ID) DESC

3. What query would you run to get all the cities in
Mexico with a population of greater than
500,000? Your query should arrange the result
by population in descending order. 

SELECT country.name,city.Name,city.Population,country.Code	
FROM country
JOIN city ON city.CountryCode=Code
WHERE country.Name="Mexico" and city.Population>500000
ORDER BY  city.Population DESC

4. What query would you run to get all languages in
each country with a percentage greater than
89%? Your query should arrange the result by
percentage in descending order. 

SELECT country.name,countrylanguage.Language,countrylanguage.Percentage
FROM country
JOIN countrylanguage ON countrylanguage.CountryCode=Code
WHERE Percentage>89
ORDER BY Percentage DESC

5. What query would you run to get all the countries
with Surface Area below 501 and Population
greater than 100,000? 

SELECT Name,SurfaceArea,Population
FROM country
WHERE SurfaceArea<501 and Population>100000

6. What query would you run to get countries with
only Constitutional Monarchy with a capital
greater than 200 and a life expectancy greater
than 75 years? 

SELECT Name,GovernmentForm,Capital,LifeExpectancy
FROM country
WHERE GovernmentForm='Constitutional Monarchy' and Capital>200 and LifeExpectancy>75

7. What query would you run to get all the cities of
Argentina inside the Buenos Aires district and
have the population greater than 500, 000? The
query should return the Country Name, City
Name, District and Population. 

SELECT country.Name,city.name,city.District,city.Population
FROM country
JOIN city on city.CountryCode=Code
WHERE country.Name='Argentina' and District='Buenos Aires'and city.Population>500000

8. What query would you run to summarize the
number of countries in each region? The query
should display the name of the region and the
number of countries. Also, the query should
arrange the result by the number of countries in
descending order.

SELECT Region,count(Name)AS countries
FROM country
Group by region	
ORDER BY countries DESC
